The following Jupyter notebook was created for the project "Industry standard for the biodiversity impact of construction considering the whole supply chain". The purpose was to calculate the life cycle biodiversity impact of various construction materials (and of whole buildings) considering the most up-to-date LCIA methodology. We considered both Impact World + and GLAM (Global Guidance for Life Cycle Impact Assessment Indicators and Methods, still under development at the time of the project). For the impact of land use, both GLAM and IW+ require a geographically specific assessment, considering both the type of land use and its location. It was not possible to directly obtain such geographically specific inventories via ecoinvent, so this code was written to derive such inventories and map them with GLAM and Impact World +
- Extracting geographically specific LCI from ecoinvent with Brightway2 (largely based on preexisting code shared by Chris Mutel on Stackexchange).
- Automating the process to run on an entire folder.
- Mapping the extracted inventories with appropriate land occupation and transformation characterization factors from GLAM and Impact World +.
- Calculating the resulting land-use-related impact on biodiversity (non land-use-related impacts were calculated separately), considering several possible methods.
- For the purpose of a sensitivity analysis, modifying the geospecific LCIs to change the location of certain activities or the type of forestry.
The code is open-source, licensed under the GNU GPL v3.
